***Вводная картинка***

Questions about proper commission rates and ability of validator's to attract delegations are one of the hottest topics in staking ecosystem. Concerns around 0 commission fees and frustration related to finding a balance between sufficient fees to operate profitable validator motivated us to look for a solution.

Proof-Of-Stake ecosystem is still in infancy and many people who entered crypto world are still unfamiliar with the concept. We came up with a single idea that may bring new users, cause positive impact and transform the staking ecosystem in general. 

# DeFi (staking) API

We are happy to present DeFi API. It represents SDK with a set of modules (or APIs) that are easy to integrate with. The first module we've built is a Staking API. It represent a marketplace that allows validators to attract new delegators increasing total earnings and a single monetization platform for service providers that allow to earn a share of validator's staking revenue generated by users brought by a service provider.

Now, let's split it into three parts depending on types of involved participants.

## Service providers

Service provider is simply a non-custodial wallet or exchange that offer to users a convenient UI and UX to store or trade crypto assets. It also may be a blog, or even a person who is able to aggregate users. For existing decentralized wallets question of user base monetization is a core priority and always fraught with difficulties. Staking API for them is an option to add a new revenue stream from staking using prepared personal cabinet to track necessary data. If wallet or exchange doesn't support staking then it will be easy for developers to call Staking API, get all the data for the UI and offer staking opportunities for their users with zero effort.

***Картинки личного кабинета со стороны кошельков***

## Validators

2) Validators are staking providers interested in continuous customer flow and earning enough revenue to provide secure validation services. With Staking API they would be able to attract new delegators from service providers by sharing a portion of their commission fees from these delegations. For them, Staking API is a marketplace where validators offer their candidature and have personal cabinet with payout information and delegation statistics.

***Картинки личного кабинета со стороны валидаторов, пример статистики***

## Delegators

3) For example, users will be able to utilize staking features from the wallet they used to by choosing a validator from a Staking API marketplace via wallet UI. The total commission rate they pay will not be affected. The whole process of revenue sharing between wallet and validator will pass by. 

From the community side such model have some obvious positive outcomes. 

* Service providers are incentivized to maximize their revenue and promote validators with optimal commission rates. If the commission rate is too high, less people will delegate, if it is too low, revenue would be also low. This may displace concentration of stake on 0 fee validators and revise the perception of 0 commission without enforcement on a protocol level. Market forces will help validators experimenting with commission rates to find an optimal strategy.

* Another great thing is in ability for small validators to compete with big ones without commission fee dumping. If delegation to such validators will be economically feasible, service providers will promote them. Listing on Staking API marketplace is an easy way to attract potential delegators with low cost and a great opportunity to increase earnings that could be spent on security and infrastructure improvement. 

* Environment where small validators would be able to earn sufficient revenue to operate their infrastructure in addition to new users brought by service providers into staking may increase the overall stability and decentralization level of the network.

# Initial phase of Staking API

Staking API minimal viable product (MVP) is ready and initially it will allow service providers to offer ATOM staking with validators listed on the marketplace. We are excited to announce that in(at) the first stage AtomicWallet (with existing user base of 100 000 DAU and other stats?) joined Staking API as a service provider.

***Картинкa-визитка: лого DeFi API + логотип AtomicWallet***

We are also proud to announce that initial validator's list will consist of highly reputable staking providers: Certus One, B-Harvest, P2P Validator, Ztake, SimpleVC and Forbole.

***Картинкa-визитка: лого DeFi API + логотипы валидаторов***

For P2P Validator it is a separate product. We provide a platform with necessary tools to track delegations and payouts and offer simple entrance into staking connecting service providers with the most prominent validators in the space of Proof-Of-Stake ecosystem. After the short testing phase we will open the marketplace for everyone and begin onboarding new partners on continuous basis. 

Мы будем разглашать сколько и за что мы получаем, как вообще прописать часть, объясняющую нашу связь с этим и выгоду?

---

*To join as a service provider or validator visit our website: [defiapi.com](defiapi.com)*

---

**P2P Validator** offers high-quality staking facilities and provides up to date information for educational purposes. Stay tuned for updates and new blog posts.

**Twitter:**[ @p2pvalidator](https://twitter.com/p2pvalidator)

**Telegram:**[ https://t.me/p2pvalidator](https://t.me/p2pvalidator)